metaDR - (Metadata Replicated)
==============================
  This project provides a replicated in-memory metadata filesystem using Viewstamped Replication [1]. Most of the distributed systems have to manage metadata corresponding to the service that they provide.  For example, GFS [3] master node maintains the metadata of the entire filesystem. Zookeeper [2] provides a replicated metadata filesystem which can be used to implement other distributed services like locking, leader election etc. It is inevitable that this metadata need to be highly available as this can be a single point of failure. Viewstamped replication [1] provides the algorithm to achieve consensus in distributed systems. We are implementing a simple in-memory key-value store that is replicated and made highly available using viewstamped replication. We have modeled the key-value store interface to be similar to the one in zookeeper, where the key is in the format of UNIX filesystem path and value is a string.  At any point of time, there is a single primary and multiple backups. All the client requests have to be issued to the primary in order to guarantee strong consistency. When the primary fails, one of the backups changes role to primary. The system can tolerate ‘f’ failures where the total number of nodes in the system configuration is 2f + 1. The system is being implemented using C++11 on Linux based platform.  
  There are two main components in the system: the client library and the backend server executable. The client library provides the APIs for the KV store. The users of the system are expected to use the client library APIs to store their metadata. The client library uses RPCs to transfer the client requests to the backend server. The backend takes care of processing the client request, modifying the actual key-value store and replicating the update/deletion across all the backups.  The main KV store client APIs are create, set, get, list and remove. A shell kind of utility is provided that can be used by the clients to invoke different commands to manage the KV store.  The shell can be used if the users do not want to write code using the client library. If the size of the system configuration is N, then N instances of backend server need to be started. One of them would be elected as primary and the others will be backup. Each instance of the server needs to be started with a configuration file. The configuration file contains the details of the client and the replication ports, where the server has to start the listener threads and in addition, it contains the details of all the nodes in the system. This is how each server instance would know the details of the nodes in system with which it has to communicate to implement the consensus protocol. The client needs to be aware of the system configuration and all client requests should be sent only to the primary. If a request were sent to a backup, then the client would get an error explaining that the node is not primary. In case of primary failure, the client can broadcast the request to all the nodes and only one of them would accept the request, which is the new primary.  From then on, the client can just send the request to the new primary. Server management client APIs can be provided for reconfiguration and shutdown support. This should allow the clients to dynamically add more server instances to the system and to cleanly shutdown any server instance for maintenance reasons.
  XDRPP [6] module provides an XDR based RPC [4] implementation. XDR [5] stands for External Data Representation which describes the interface definition language (IDL), which can be used to express data structures, transmitted between machines using RPC. XDRPP comprises of a compiler that facilitates stub generation from XDR based IDLs. It consists of a runtime library that hides the network communication details and facilitates RPC invocations across different machines. 

Build Dependencies
===================
. gmake
. gcc or clang with C++11
. bison
. flex
. pkg-config

One useful feature of XDRPP is that is can trace and pretty-print RPC calls if the following environment variables are set.
$ export XDR_TRACE_CLIENT= XDR_TRACE_SERVER=1
